Fig 14.- Time series of cross-shelf transport in the surface boundary layer U(ML+TL)
	(Mixed + Transitional Layer, solid line) and the Ekman transport Ue = t/rhof 
	(dashed line) from three locations during the upwelling season of 1982 
	(Lentz 1992).
	
Fig. 15- Schematic summarizing some of the characteristics of the surface boundary
	layer in a coastal upwelling region: u* =       is the shear velocity and 
	U is the cross-shelf transport in the surface mixed layer plus the transition
	layer (Lentz 1992).
	
Fig. 16- Aircraft wind measurements aquired during CODE 2 experiment (summer 1982) 
	from which (1) wind stress (Pa) and (2) wind stress curl (Pa/100km) were 
	computed. (3) and (4) show simulations from a simple, two layer, vertically 
	integrated model of coastal upwelling. They represent the upper-layer thickness
	(in m) after 24 hours of simulation using observed wind stresses, (3) without 
	curl and (4) with curl. Note how the nonzero stress curl enhanced coastal 
	upwelling, the greatest effects being around the areas of largest observed
	curl values (Enriquez and Friehe, 1995).
	
Fig. 17- Schematic of coastal upwelling: (a) upwelling over a shallow frictional shelf
	where the equatorward flow on the shelf penetrates to the bottom and bottom 
	ekman transport is onshore, supplying the upwelling waters; (b) upwelling over
	a shallow frictional shelf when the poleward undercurrent penetrates the shelf 
	and the bottom Ekman layer transport is offshore and upwelling waters are 
	supplied from middepth (Hill et al., 1998).
	
Fig. 18- Prediction from a combined two-dimensional circulation model and one dimensional
	mixed-layer model of cross-shelf structures of Temperature (C), alongshore velocity
	(cm/s), and stream function (cm2/s). On day 130 the equatorward wind stress 
	is the strongest and the upwelling front moves to the outer shelf. Upwelling takes
	place in two narrow areas, one at the coast and the other on the seaward side of the 
	front. In association with the convergence and divergence of the upper layer
	transport, a prominent double-cell circulation is formed (Chen and Wang, 1990).

Fig. 19- Schematic of an upwelling system showing the varied range of possible physical 
	processes and the complex 3 dimensionality of the system (Hill et al., 1998).
	
Fig. 20- 