FN ISI Export Format
VR 1.0
PT Journal
AU Lumpkin, R
   Treguier, AM
   Speer, K
TI Lagrangian eddy scales in the Northern Atlantic Ocean
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID SATELLITE-TRACKED DRIFTERS; SURFACE CIRCULATION; STATISTICAL-
   ANALYSIS; GENERAL-CIRCULATION; CALIFORNIA CURRENT; ROSSBY
   WAVES; FLOATS; VARIABILITY; TRAJECTORIES; SPECTRA
AB Eddy time and length scales are calculated from surface drifter
   and subsurface float observations in the northern Atlantic
   Ocean. Outside the energetic Gulf Stream, subsurface timescales
   are relatively constant at depths from 700 m to 2000 m. Length
   scale and the characteristic eddy speed decrease with
   increasing depth below 700 m, but length scale stays relatively
   constant in the upper several hundred meters of the Gulf
   Stream. It is suggested that this behavior is due to the
   Lagrangian sampling of the mesoscale field, in limits set by
   the Eulerian eddy scales and the eddy kinetic energy. In high-
   energy regions of the surface and near-surface North Atlantic,
   the eddy field is in the "frozen field'' Lagrangian sampling
   regime for which the Lagrangian and Eulerian length scales are
   proportional. However, throughout much of the deep ocean
   interior, the eddy field may be in the "fixed float'' regime
   for which the Lagrangian and Eulerian timescales are nearly
   equal. This does not necessarily imply that the deep interior
   is nearly linear, as fixed-float sampling is possible in a flow
   field of O(1) nonlinearity.
BP 2425
EP 2440
PG 16
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2002
PD SEP
VL 32
IS 9
GA 588GX
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000177694700001
ER

PT Journal
AU McClean, JL
   Poulain, PM
   Pelton, JW
   Maltrud, ME
TI Eulerian and lagrangian statistics from surface drifters and a
   high-resolution POP simulation in the North Atlantic
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID GLOBAL OCEAN CIRCULATION; EDDY KINETIC-ENERGY; NUMERICAL-
   SIMULATION; MODEL
AB Eulerian and Lagrangian statistics were calculated from the
   North Atlantic surface drifter dataset for the years 1993-97
   and a high-resolution eddy-resolving configuration of the Los
   Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) Parallel Ocean Program (POP)
   model. The main purpose of the study was to statistically
   quantify the state of the surface circulation in the North
   Atlantic Ocean for this period and compare it with the
   equivalent modeled state. Diffusivities and time and length
   scales are anisotropic over most of the ocean basin, except in
   most of the subpolar regions. Typical time and length scales
   are 2-4 days and 20-50 km. Longest timescales are found in the
   energetically quiescent regions in the south and southeast
   sectors of the basin. The longest length scales are found in
   the energetic western boundary current system, the most
   dispersive region of the domain. In many respects the eddy-
   resolving model reproduced a surface circulation in good
   statistical agreement with that depicted by the drifters. Model
   time and length scales were also anisotropic, with typical
   timescales of 2-4 days and length scales of 20-50 km in the
   zonal direction, and 30-50 km in the meridional direction. An
   eddy-permitting POP simulation produced unrealistic time and
   length scales that were too long and too short relative to the
   drifter scales; these were attributed to the model being too
   stable hydrodynamically.
BP 2472
EP 2491
PG 20
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2002
PD SEP
VL 32
IS 9
GA 588GX
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000177694700004
ER

PT Journal
AU van Aken, HM
TI Surface currents in the Bay of Biscay as observed with drifters
   between 1995 and 1999
SO DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART I-OCEANOGRAPHIC RESEARCH PAPERS
DE surface drifters; slope current; eddies; internal tides; Bay of
   Biscay
ID EASTERN NORTH-ATLANTIC; INTERNAL SOLITON PACKETS; EDDY KINETIC-
   ENERGY; SOUTHERN BAY; MEAN CIRCULATION; LOCAL GENERATION;
   SLOPE; WINTER; TIDES; BUOYS
AB From 1995 to 1998 25 shallow drogued WOCE/TOGA surface drifters
   were deployed in the Bay of Biscay. The current velocity in the
   Bay of Biscay, derived from these drifters, has been analyzed
   for its long-term seasonal mean, meso-scale and high-frequency
   characteristics. Over the abyssal plain the kinetic energy of
   the high-frequency surface velocity (similar to150 cm(2)/s(2))
   is about 3.5 time the kinetic energy contributed by meso-scale
   eddies (similar to42 cm(2)/s(2)). The eddies are mainly anti-
   cyclonic, with a typical diameter of about 45 km. In the centre
   of the eddies the magnitude of the relative vorticity amounts
   to several tenths of the planetary vorticity. The seasonal mean
   flow over the abyssal plain shows a magnitude (1.5-2cm/s) and a
   direction in agreement with the seasonal mean wind-driven Ekman
   drift. Over the continental slope a stronger, poleward slope
   current is observed in winter (similar to5 cm/s). This slope
   current is apparently divergent, in agreement with feeding of
   the slope current from the interior of the ocean. In summer the
   slope current appears to be absent or equatorward. (C) 2002
   Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
BP 1071
EP 1086
PG 16
JI Deep-Sea Res. Part I-Oceanogr. Res. Pap.
PY 2002
PD JUN
VL 49
IS 6
GA 576TB
J9 DEEP-SEA RES PT I-OCEANOG RES
UT ISI:000177020200008
ER

PT Journal
AU Schott, FA
   Dengler, M
   Schoenefeldt, R
TI The shallow overturning circulation of the Indian Ocean
SO PROGRESS IN OCEANOGRAPHY
ID NORTHERN ARABIAN-SEA; SOMALI CURRENT; SOUTHWEST MONSOON; SUMMER
   MONSOON; HEAT-TRANSPORT; ANNUAL CYCLE; DYNAMICS; VARIABILITY;
   MODEL; THERMODYNAMICS
AB The Indian Ocean differs from the other two large oceans in not
   possessing an annual-mean equatorial upwelling regime. While
   the subtropical cells (STCs) of the Atlantic and Pacific Oceans
   connect subtropical subduction regimes with tropical upwelling
   via equatorward thermocline flows and coastal undercurrents,
   much of the upwelling in the Indian Ocean occurs in the coastal
   regimes of the northern hemisphere. Consequently, the
   counterpart of the STCs of the other oceans has to be a cross-
   equatorial cell connecting the southern subtropical subduction
   zone via the Somali Current with the upwelling areas off
   Somalia and Oman. The southward return flow is by interior
   Ekman transports. This annual-mean picture is accomplished by a
   dominance of the summer monsoon, during which only northern
   upwelling occurs, over the winter monsoon. Pathways of the
   thermocline flows related to the shallow overturning
   circulations are investigated here and estimates of subduction
   and upwelling are presented. From the observed mean northward
   flow of thermocline waters within the Somali Current and the
   interior southward cross-equatorial return flow the magnitude
   of the cross-equatorial cell is estimated at 6 Sv, with part of
   the thermocline waters being supplied by the Indonesian
   Throughflow. From observations we estimate that the northern
   upwelling occurs dominantly through the offshore outflows of
   the Somali Current by the Southern Gyre and Great Whirl and to
   a lesser degree off Oman. However, we also present model
   results suggesting a much lower role of Somali upwelling and a
   significant contribution from open-ocean upwelling in cyclonic
   domes around India and Sri Lanka. An interesting aspect of the
   Indian Ocean cross-equatorial cell is the mechanism by which
   the Ekman transport crosses the equator. Typically, Ekman
   transports during the summer (winter) monsoon are southward
   (northward) on both sides of the equator, while mean meridional
   winds on the equator are in the respective opposite direction.
   Earlier model evidence had suggested that this type of forcing
   should lead to an equatorial roll with northward surface flow
   and southward subsurface flow during the summer monsoon and
   reverse orientation during the winter monsoon. Observational
   evidence is presented here, based on shipboard ADCP sections,
   moored stations and surface drifters, confirming the existence
   of the equatorial roll. It is strongly developed in the western
   Indian Ocean during the SW monsoon where the wind conditions
   for the roll are best met. While in the central Indian Ocean
   and during the winter monsoon the roll appears to be a more
   transient phenomenon, superimposed by equatorial-wave currents.
   The evidence further suggests that the roll is mostly confined
   to the surface-mixed layer and is, therefore, of little
   consequence for the meridional heat transport. (C) 2002
   Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
BP 57
EP 103
PG 47
JI Prog. Oceanogr.
PY 2002
VL 53
IS 1
GA 569FT
J9 PROG OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000176590700003
ER

PT Journal
AU Poje, AC
   Toner, M
   Kirwan, AD
   Jones, CKRT
TI Drifter launch strategies based on Lagrangian templates
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID OCEANOGRAPHIC EXPERIMENT DESIGN; VELOCITY-FIELDS; ATLANTIC-
   OCEAN; 2-DIMENSIONAL TURBULENCE; TRANSPORT; MODEL; STRAIN;
   FLOWS
AB A basin-scale, reduced-gravity model is used to study how
   drifter launch strategies affect the accuracy of Eulerian
   velocity fields reconstructed from limited Lagrangian data.
   Optimal dispersion launch sites are found by tracking strongly
   hyperbolic singular points in the flow field. Lagrangian data
   from drifters launched from such locations are found to provide
   significant improvement in the reconstruction accuracy over
   similar but randomly located initial deployments. The
   eigenvalues of the hyperbolic singular points in the flow field
   determine the intensity of the local particle dispersion and
   thereby provide a natural timescale for initializing subsequent
   launches. Aligning the initial drifter launch in each site
   along an outflowing manifold ensures both high initial particle
   dispersion and the eventual sampling of regions of high kinetic
   energy, two factors that substantially affect the accuracy of
   the Eulerian reconstruction. Reconstruction error is reduced by
   a factor of similar to2.5 by using a continual launch strategy
   based on both the local stretching rates and the outflowing
   directions of two strong saddles located in the dynamically
   active region south of the central jet. Notably, a majority of
   those randomly chosen launch sites that produced the most
   accurate reconstructions also sampled the local manifold
   structure.
BP 1855
EP 1869
PG 15
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2002
PD JUN
VL 32
IS 6
GA 555WN
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000175816400015
ER

PT Journal
AU Reynolds, AM
TI Lagrangian stochastic modeling of anomalous diffusion in two-
   dimensional turbulence
SO PHYSICS OF FLUIDS
ID SINGLE-PARTICLE DISPERSION; FOKKER-PLANCK EQUATIONS; LEVY
   FLIGHTS; 2-DIMENSIONAL TURBULENCE; BROWNIAN-MOTION; FORCE-
   FIELDS; TRAJECTORIES; VORTICES; RELAXATION; STATISTICS
AB It is shown that at intermediate times, the Langevin equation
   corresponding to the nonlinear Fokker-Planck equation with
   exponents mu=1 and nu>1 produces trajectories with multifractal
   scaling and anomalous power-law dispersion, in common with
   observations of drifters in the ocean and numerical simulations
   of tracer particles in two-dimensional turbulence. The extent
   of this regime and the occurrence of anomalously large normal
   diffusion at much later times are shown to be in close
   agreement with dispersion data from numerical simulations of
   two-dimensional turbulence. In analogy with the dynamics of
   point vortices in two-dimensional turbulence, the modeled
   dynamics are nonergodic and effectively comprise of a
   background Ornstein-Uhlenbeck process punctuated by occasional
   fast long flights. It is shown that these dynamics optimize the
   nonextensive (Tsallis) entropy. It is tentatively suggested
   that the anomalous dispersion in two-dimensional turbulence is
   a consequence of smaller than average Lagrangian accelerations
   in regions of the flow with faster than average velocities. (C)
   2002 American Institute of Physics.
BP 1442
EP 1449
PG 8
JI Phys. Fluids
PY 2002
PD APR
VL 14
IS 4
GA 529UW
J9 PHYS FLUIDS
UT ISI:000174319200017
ER

PT Journal
AU Paldor, N
TI The transport in the Ekman surface layer on the spherical Earth
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE RESEARCH
ID INERTIAL OSCILLATIONS; LAGRANGIAN DRIFTERS; NORTHEAST PACIFIC
AB The modification of the transport in the Ekman layer on the f-
   plane due to the Coriolis parameter's variation with latitude
   and the curvature of Earth's surface is analyzed by considering
   the temporal changes in the angular momentum. The latter plays
   the role of a dynamical variable of the model, replacing the
   zonal velocity component, and drag is modeled by Rayleigh
   friction. The steady transport, which on an f-plane is
   perpendicular to the applied wind stress, is recovered on the
   Earth as a special solution where the meridional velocity is
   time-independent. For zonal wind stress, the trajectory on
   Earth is simply a great circle that passes through the poles
   while for meridional wind stress the special solution can have
   a time-independent nonzero meridional component so the
   trajectory does not have to be purely zonal. This asymmetry
   between zonal and meridional wind stresses on the Earth is due
   to the Coriolis parameter's variation with latitude only-an
   effect that is completely neglected on the f-plane. For steady
   wind forcing, the dynamical system is three-dimensional and its
   fixed points are located at the latitudes of vanishing wind
   stress. In the drag-free case, when the curl of the wind stress
   does not vanish at the fixed points, these points are always
   unstable; namely there exists at least one repulsive direction
   in (the 3D) phase space, When drag is included, these steady
   states still prevail but become stable for realistic values of
   the wind forcing and drag. An additional steady state, located
   right on the equator, exists in this case and its zonal
   velocity attains a constant value determined by the balance
   between the applied stress and the drag force. Although drag is
   present, this steady state is unstable for negative wind stress
   (i.e. easterly winds) so any deviation from a purely westward,
   equatorial, trajectory will grow exponentially in time.
   Naturally, no similar instability of the steady states occurs
   on the f-plane. The curl of the zonal wind stress at the
   latitudes where the stress itself vanishes determines the
   trajectory of a water column originating there via the
   nonlinear interaction between the motion due to inertial
   oscillations and that due to the wind-forced changes of the
   angular momentum. Temporal or zonal dependence of the wind
   stress has a profound effect on the trajectories, especially
   near the unstable latitudes due to the increase in the
   dimensionality of the system that enables more complex
   trajectories, The present simple model can quantitatively
   reproduce the observed fast dispersal of nearby launched
   drifters with steady and smooth wind stress. It can also
   explain qualitatively the different spectra of clusters of
   drifters launched in two field experiments in the NE Pacific
   Ocean under similar winds and the highly variable angle between
   the wind and the observed trajectories of clusters of drifters.
BP 47
EP 72
PG 26
JI J. Mar. Res.
PY 2002
PD JAN
VL 60
IS 1
GA 523PR
J9 J MAR RES
UT ISI:000173964700003
ER

PT Journal
AU Tseng, RS
TI On the dispersion and diffusion near estuaries and around
   islands
SO ESTUARINE COASTAL AND SHELF SCIENCE
DE dispersion; diffusion; island wakes; estuary; drifter
ID COASTAL WATERS; CURRENTS
AB A series of diffusion experiments using surface drifters were
   performed in the coastal waters of south-western Taiwan near a
   small estuary and around an island. Two stages or regimes of
   drifter dispersion can be identified for all experiments: a
   coherent regime in the beginning stage when the drifters
   remained clustered with little dispersion occurred, and a
   rapid-disperse regime in the latter stage when the separation
   of drifters grew to the order of a few kilometres. Our results
   show that near estuaries the extent of the dispersive influence
   is limited to the tidal excursion distance, and the dispersion
   coefficient is about 12 similar to 15 m(2) s(-1). On the other
   hand, the dispersion coefficient downstream of an island in a
   strong flow (similar to 1-5 in s(-1)) can reach a much larger
   value (45 m(2) s(-1)), which can be attributed to the enhanced
   mixing and transport processes due to island wakes. Theoretical
   scaling parameters for coastal water flows are also presented
   to predict the formation of island wakes. After applying three
   different methods to exclude the effects of shear flow, the
   turbulent diffusivities for our experiments amount to 0.2
   similar to 5 m(2) s(-1). Analysis of the differential kinematic
   properties indicates that a close relationship exists among the
   dispersion, diffusion and the effect of shear flow. (C) 2002
   Elsevier Science Ltd.
BP 89
EP 100
PG 12
JI Estuar. Coast. Shelf Sci.
PY 2002
PD JAN
VL 54
IS 1
GA 521ZB
J9 ESTUAR COAST SHELF SCI
UT ISI:000173870300008
ER

PT Journal
AU Sanders, TM
   Garvine, RW
TI Fresh water delivery to the continental shelf and subsequent
   mixing: An observational study
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID COASTAL SURFACE CURRENTS; DRIFTER OBSERVATIONS; INNER SHELF;
   BUOYANCY; ESTUARY; STRATIFICATION; DYNAMICS; SYSTEM; RHINE;
   CODE
AB We address two questions related to buoyant coastal discharge:
   (1) What agents control the delivery of estuarine fresh water
   to the shelf? (2) How is this fresh water mixed with shelf
   water? Our subject was the Delaware Coastal Current, the
   buoyancy driven current originating in the Delaware estuary.
   The delivery of freshwater to the shelf at subtidal frequencies
   is controlled by two forcing agents: upland freshwater
   discharge into the estuary and the component of the wind
   parallel to the estuarine axis. The mean current we observed in
   the source region showed a strong decline in speed and large
   counterclockwise veering with increased depth. These variations
   in the mean current are best explained by thermal wind shear.
   From the moored instrument records we found evidence that in
   the source region mixing events of several hours duration are
   common at tidal frequencies when the local Richardson number Ri
   drops to a minimum level below 1/4. Furthermore, there is a
   pronounced modulation of this minimum level for Ri controlled
   by the action of coastal Ekman circulation. Data from the
   satellite-tracked drifters show the striking difference between
   the coastal current configuration during downwelling and
   upwelling events. During downwelling the flow is downshelf and
   weakly onshore with particle trajectories orthogonal to the
   mean horizontal salinity gradient. In contrast, during
   upwelling the flow is strongly offshore and somewhat upshelf
   with particle trajectories down the mean salinity gradient,
   implying rapid mixing of plume water with shelf water.
   Corresponding values for horizontal dispersion of plume water
   showed modest values for both the along-shelf and across-shelf
   directions under downwelling but a very large value for the
   across-shelf dispersion under upwelling. We conclude that wind
   stress, acting through the mediation of the strain field
   produced by coastal upwelling circulation, is the primary means
   for completing the mixing of fresh water within the plume with
   shelf water.
BP 27087
EP 27101
PG 15
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2001
PD NOV 15
VL 106
IS C11
GA 491JM
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000172105300020
ER

PT Journal
AU Fratantoni, DM
TI North Atlantic surface circulation during the 1990's observed
   with satellite-tracked drifters
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID GULF-STREAM; EDDY VARIABILITY; KINETIC-ENERGY; CARIBBEAN SEA;
   OCEAN; WATER; VELOCITY; SCALE; OSCILLATION; CURRENTS
AB A new compilation of Lagrangian velocity observations describes
   the state of the North Atlantic surface circulation during the
   1990s. Gridded fields of velocity and eddy kinetic energy (EKE)
   are constructed from trajectories of more than 1500 15-m
   drogued satellite-tracked surface drifters in service between
   January 1990 and December 1999. This time period overlaps a
   coordinated field study of circulation and variability in the
   North Atlantic completed between 1996-2000 as part of the World
   Ocean Circulation Experiment. We describe the construction of a
   self-consistent drifter climatology, present decadal-mean
   quasi-Eulerian velocity and EKE fields computed on a 1 degrees
   grid, and compare these results with contemporary satellite
   measurements. Detailed discussion of the inferred surface
   circulation is focused on three regions: (1) The Gulf Stream
   and North Atlantic Current, (2) the Labrador Sea and subpolar
   gyre, and (3) the Caribbean Sea. The swiftest drifter motions
   were found in the equatorial region and along the tropical,
   subtropical, and subpolar western boundaries. The maximum
   instantaneous speed determined from a single (quality-
   controlled and filtered) drifter observation was 273 cm s(-1)
   in the Gulf Stream southeast of Cape Cod. The highest EKE value
   in the North Atlantic (2790 cm(2) s(-2)) was found in the Gulf
   Stream just downstream of the New England Seamounts. Over most
   of the Atlantic basin, drifter-derived EKE values were found to
   be O(100 cm(2)s(-2)) higher than corresponding values derived
   from satellite altimetry. In the Labrador Sea a region of
   sharply elevated EKE appears to be geographically related to
   the localized ejection of drifters (and by extension, mass and
   kinetic energy) from the energetic West Greenland Current
   between 60 degrees and 62 degreesN. When compared to drifter
   measurements made in the late 1970s our results suggest (but do
   not statistically confirm) an enhancement and slight northward
   shift of the zonal Gulf Stream extension. Such a shift is
   consistent in sign with expectations based on observed
   interdecadal variations in wind stress and subtropical gyre
   potential energy associated with the North Atlantic
   Oscillation.
BP 22067
EP 22093
PG 27
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2001
PD OCT 15
VL 106
IS C10
GA 480NR
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000171468300001
ER

PT Journal
AU Rabinovich, AB
   Thomson, RE
TI Evidence of diurnal shelf waves in satellite-tracked drifter
   trajectories off the Kuril Islands
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID COASTAL-TRAPPED WAVES; CONTINENTAL-SHELF; VANCOUVER-ISLAND;
   NORTHEAST PACIFIC; STRATIFIED OCEAN; TIME SERIES; TIDES;
   CURRENTS; OKHOTSK; SEA
AB Satellite-tracked surface drifters deployed in September 1993
   in the vicinity of the Kuril-Kamchatka Trench were advected
   onto the Pacific continental shelf of the Kuril Islands where
   they encountered strong (40-50 cm s(-1)) diurnal tidal
   currents. One of the drifters subsequently passed through Friz
   Strait into the Sea of Okhotsk. experiencing intense (>100 cm
   s(-1)) diurnal currents in the strait and strong (35-40 cm s(-
   1)) diurnal currents over the Okhotsk shelf of the Kuril
   Islands. The across-shelf structure of the diurnal tidal
   currents is shown to be consistent with that of free.
   topographically trapped subinertial waves propagating along the
   continental margin of the islands. Of the three continental
   shelf wave models considered (a barotropic model with zero mean
   flow, a barotropic model with nonzero alongshore mean flow, and
   a baroclinic model based on the observed density structure),
   only the baroclinic model accurately explains the main features
   of the diurnal currents for the Pacific and Okhotsk shelves.
   Both first and second mode waves contribute to the diurnal
   currents.
BP 2650
EP 2668
PG 19
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2001
PD SEP
VL 31
IS 9
GA 473QZ
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000171060600008
ER

PT Journal
AU Lozier, MS
   Gawarkiewicz, G
TI Cross-frontal exchange in the Middle Atlantic Bight as
   evidenced by surface drifters
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID CONTINENTAL-SHELF NORTH; GULF-STREAM WATER; NEW-ENGLAND; CAPE-
   HATTERAS; MEANDERING JET; FLUID EXCHANGE; BREAK SOUTH;
   TRAJECTORIES; VARIABILITY; FLOATS
AB Surface drifters at 10 and 40 m are analyzed to assess cross-
   frontal exchange characteristics within the Middle Atlantic
   Bight. This Lagrangian analysis shows a shelfbreak jet
   characterized by strong and ubiquitous meandering. The drifters
   collectively demonstrate the continuity of the shelfbreak
   frontal jet from Georges Bank to Cape Hatteras. Along the
   length of the shelf break the drifters are detrained both
   onshore and offshore, yet offshore detrainment is predominant.
   The sites for offshore detrainment are distributed along the
   Bight, precluding the possibility that localized bathymetric
   features are the primary conduits for near-surface to mid-depth
   cross-frontal exchange. Finally, a strong seasonal asymmetry is
   noted in the drifter exchange pattern, with more offshore
   exchange in the winter than in the summer. However, the
   available data limits our interpretation of this feature.
BP 2498
EP 2510
PG 13
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2001
VL 31
IS 8
GA 461ZR
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000170394200034
ER

PT Journal
AU Largier, J
   Boyd, AJ
TI Drifter observations of surface water transport in the Benguela
   Current during winter 1999
SO SOUTH AFRICAN JOURNAL OF SCIENCE
ID COASTAL TRANSITION ZONE; EVOLUTION; FILAMENTS; FEATURES;
   NAMIBIA; SYSTEM; VIEW
AB During the winter of 1999, eleven drifters were deployed over
   the Benguela shelf to explore large-scale transport of surface
   waters. Half of the drifters were deployed 'nearshore' (over
   the mid-shelf) and the other half 'offshore' (over the outer
   shelf). Nearshore drifters exhibited onshore movement at all
   latitudes and poleward flow at southern latitudes (33-34
   degreesS). Offshore drifters moved equatorward at speeds of
   0.05-0.3 m s(-1), roughly following isobaths over the shelf.
   Discontinuities in along-shelf transport were observed at the
   Angola-Benguela Front (16-17 degreesS), which marks the
   equatorward end of the Benguela system, and in the Luderitz
   region (26-28 degreesS), supporting the suggestion that the
   Benguela is split into northern and southern parts with limited
   exchange of near-surface plankton. The cross-isobath movement
   of drifters at the northern end of the broad Orange River shelf
   suggests a topographic control on the location and dynamics of
   the Luderitz filament, in addition to the windstress maximum.
   Based on mean flow and flow variability exhibited by the
   drifters, sub-regions are characterized according to whether
   the transport of surface water is dominated by alongshore
   advection, offshore advection or 'eddy diffusion'.
BP 223
EP 229
PG 7
JI S. Afr. J. Sci.
PY 2001
PD MAY-JUN
VL 97
IS 5-6
GA 460LH
J9 S AFR J SCI
UT ISI:000170308700017
ER

PT Journal
AU Poulain, PM
TI Adriatic Sea surface circulation as derived from drifter data
   between 1990 and 1999
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS
DE surface circulation; seasonal cycle; mesoscale eddies;
   Lagrangian drifters
ID GENERAL-CIRCULATION; VARIABILITY; CURRENTS; SYSTEM
AB The Adriatic Sea surface circulation for the period 1990-1999
   is studied using the data of more than 200 satellite-tracked
   drifters. The spatial structure and the temporal variability of
   the surface currents, at meso- to seasonal scales, are
   described in terms of Eulerian and Lagrangian statistics
   estimated from the low-pass filtered drifter velocities. Maps
   of mean currents, subtidal velocity variance and mean kinetic
   energies were produced using a 40-km averaging scale. The mean
   flow map confirms that the global cyclonic circulation in most
   of the Adriatic basin is broken into three re-circulation cells
   in the northern, central and southern sub-basins (the latter
   two being controlled by the bathymetry of the Jabuka and South
   Adriatic Pits, respectively). An isolated cyclonic gyre
   prevails near the head of the basin. Mean velocities in the
   cyclonic gyres can exceed 25 cm s(-1) in the coastal areas
   where the velocity variance is also maximum (reaching 500 cm(2)
   s(-2)). Values near 2 X 10(7) cm(2) s(-1). 2 days and 18 km
   were obtained for the diffusivity and the Lagrangian integral
   time and spatial scales in the along-basin direction,
   respectively. In the across-basin direction, the statistics are
   typically 50% of the above values. Geographical and seasonal
   variations of the Lagrangian statistics can be substantial. It
   was found that the fluctuating velocities (or the mesoscale
   eddies) have a preferential cyclonic sense of rotation. The
   gyres and the coastal currents are mostly prevailing in summer
   and fall. In winter and spring, they are less intense but the
   southern one tends to re-circulate more around the South
   Adriatic Pit. The mean eddy kinetic energy is maximum in winter
   and fall throughout the central and southern sub-basins. The
   drifters showed that the southeastward flow along the Italian
   Peninsula has a width varying between 45 and 70 km and a mean
   core speed of 25-35 cm s(-1). In the northern and central sub-
   basins, maximum velocities are found within 5-10 km off the
   coast in winter and spring. while a weaker maximum is seen more
   offshore (15-25 km) during the other seasons. In the southern
   Adriatic, the current is wider in summer, fall and winter,
   whereas in spring, it becomes thinner (maximum core speed near
   10 km from shore and width of about 50 km). The maximum core
   speed is generally larger in summer than in winter. (C) 2001
   Elsevier Science B.V. All rights reserved.
BP 3
EP 32
PG 30
JI J. Mar. Syst.
PY 2001
PD MAY
VL 29
IS 1-4
GA 449XE
J9 J MARINE SYST
UT ISI:000169711800002
ER

PT Journal
AU Castellari, S
   Griffa, A
   Ozgokmen, TM
   Poulain, PM
TI Prediction of particle trajectories in the Adriatic Sea using
   Lagrangian data assimilation
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS
DE Adriatic Sea; Lagrangian data; assimilation; prediction
ID DRIFTER DATA; CIRCULATION; METHODOLOGY; OCEAN
AB The predictability of Lagrangian particle trajectories in the
   Adriatic Sea (a semi-enclosed sub-basin of the Mediterranean
   Sea) over a period of 1-2 weeks is investigated using three
   clusters consisting of 5-7 drifters. The analysis is conducted
   using a Gauss-Markov Lagrangian particle model, which relies on
   the estimate of climatological mean flow field, persistence of
   turbulence, and assimilation of velocity data from the
   surrounding drifters through a Kalman filtering technique. The
   results are described using the data density N-R defined as the
   number of drifters within a distance on the order of the Rossby
   radius of deformation from the particle to be predicted. The
   clusters are inherently different with respect to this
   characteristic property with values ranging from N-R < 0.5 to
   N-R greater than or equal to 2.0 over the analysis period,
   depending on the initial launch pattern of the clusters and the
   dispersion processes. The results indicate that during the
   period when N-R greater than or equal to 1, the assimilation of
   surrounding drifter data leads to an improvement of predicted
   trajectories with respect to those based on advecting the
   drifters with the mean flow. When N-R < 1, the drifters are too
   far apart to exhibit correlated motion, and the assimilation
   method does not lead to an improvement. The effects of
   uncertainties in the mean flow field and initial release
   position are discussed. The results are also compared to simple
   estimates of particle location by calculating the center of
   mass of the cluster. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V. All rights
   reserved.
BP 33
EP 50
PG 18
JI J. Mar. Syst.
PY 2001
PD MAY
VL 29
IS 1-4
GA 449XE
J9 J MARINE SYST
UT ISI:000169711800003
ER

PT Journal
AU Lumpkin, R
   Flament, P
TI Lagrangian statistics in the central North Pacific
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS
DE diffusivities; North Pacific; eddy
ID SURFACE CIRCULATION; CALIFORNIA CURRENT; ATLANTIC; VELOCITY;
   DRIFTERS; FLOATS; EDDIES
AB Lagrangian integral scales, diffusivities, dispersion and
   velocity spectra are calculated using surface drifter
   trajectories in the central North Pacific. The meridional
   integral time scale is relatively homogeneous throughout the
   region; a large increase in the zonal time and length scales
   south of Hawaii is attributed to meanders in the North
   Equatorial Current. Except in this current, the initial
   dispersion is consistent with Taylor's Theorem. For lags of 20-
   120 days, the meridional dispersion can be modeled by a
   constant eddy diffusivity. Shear in the mean zonal currents
   magnifies the zonal dispersion at long lags. In the Lagrangian
   spectra, the energetic eddy band is at 3-20 days west of
   Hawaii, 10-40 days east and north of Hawaii. and 20-60 days in
   the North Equatorial Current. In the wake of Hawaii, energetic
   lee vortices produce sharp peaks in the cyclonic and
   anticyclonic rotary spectra. (C) 2001 Elsevier Science B.V, All
   rights reserved.
BP 141
EP 155
PG 15
JI J. Mar. Syst.
PY 2001
PD MAY
VL 29
IS 1-4
GA 449XE
J9 J MARINE SYST
UT ISI:000169711800009
ER

PT Journal
AU Garfield, N
   Maltrud, ME
   Collins, CA
   Rago, TA
   Paquette, RG
TI Lagrangian flow in the California Undercurrent, an observation
   and model comparison
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE SYSTEMS
DE Lagrangian flow; California Undercurrent; eddy field
ID CURRENT SYSTEM; SEASONAL VARIABILITY; STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS;
   SURFACE CIRCULATION; DRIFTERS; OCEAN
AB During the period 1992-1998, 38 isobaric RAFOS floats were
   deployed to sample the subsurface flow of the California
   Undercurrent. The deployments, released over the California
   continental slope west of San Francisco, have sampled robust
   year-round poleward subsurface flow associated with the
   Undercurrent most seasons and the combined inshore current and
   Undercurrent in winter. Two other types of flow have been seen:
   a region of weak flow with little net displacement just west of
   the California Undercurrent, and an active westward propagating
   eddy field. This eddy field appears to be the primary mechanism
   for moving floats from the Undercurrent into the ocean
   interior. The observations and statistics from the RAFOS floats
   are compared with Lagrangian estimates of particles tracked in
   a global high resolution ocean simulation in order to evaluate
   the fidelity of the model along an eastern boundary. The
   results show that the model reproduces the general character of
   the flow reasonably well, but underestimates both the mean and
   eddy energies by a substantial amount. (C) 2001 Published by
   Elsevier Science B.V.
BP 201
EP 220
PG 20
JI J. Mar. Syst.
PY 2001
PD MAY
VL 29
IS 1-4
GA 449XE
J9 J MARINE SYST
UT ISI:000169711800012
ER

PT Journal
AU Carr, ME
   Rossby, HT
TI Pathways of the North Atlantic Current from surface drifters
   and subsurface floats
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID EDDY KINETIC-ENERGY; MEAN CIRCULATION
AB The North Atlantic east of the Grand Banks presents a thermal
   front from 40 degrees to 50 degreesN between the warm North
   Atlantic Current (NAC) and the cold Labrador Current. Here we
   use the trajectories of 84 isopycnal RAFOS floats deployed on
   the 27.2 and 27.5 sigma (T) surface in 1993-1995 and 218
   surface drifters deployed by the International Ice Patrol and
   the Institut fur Meereskunde (Kiel, Germany) between 1978 and
   1993 to understand the pathways of the NAG. The mean flow
   pattern, kinetic energy, directional stability, and most
   probable path through 1 degrees by 1 degrees boxes are derived
   for each of the three surfaces. Speed and kinetic energy
   decrease with depth, although directional stability is
   comparable at all levels. The axis of the NAG, which follows
   the 4000 m isobath along the western boundary, is described by
   mean kinetic energy (MKE) Values surpassing 100 cm(2) s(-2) on
   the float surfaces and correspond to regions with directional
   stabilities in excess of 60%. Maximum values of eddy kinetic
   energy are found just offshore of the maximum MKE associated
   with the NAC main pathway and decrease rapidly to the east. Two
   cyclonic meanders are identified at 44 degreesN, 45 degreesW
   near the Newfoundland Seamounts and at 46 degreesN, 42 degreesW
   near Flemish Cap. The main difference between the patterns
   derived for the surface drifters and floats was the greater
   eastward extent of the cyclonic trough st 44 degreesN and
   intensity of the Mann Eddy (42 degreesN, 44 degreesW) during
   the float sampling period (1993-1995).
BP 4405
EP 4419
PG 15
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2001
PD MAR 15
VL 106
IS C3
GA 409WX
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000167409600005
ER

PT Journal
AU Saji, PK
   Shenoi, SC
   Almeida, A
   Rao, G
TI Inertial currents in the Indian Ocean derived from satellite
   tracked surface drifters
SO OCEANOLOGICA ACTA
DE inertial current; drifting buoy; Indian Ocean
ID PACIFIC; SHELF
AB Satellite-tracked surface drifters were used to analyze the
   characteristics of inertial currents in the tropical Indian
   Ocean. The drifters were drogued at 15 m depth and had wind-
   produced slips less than 0.1 % of the wind speed. The rotary
   spectra of surface velocity components indicated the
   significance of inertial currents. They are circular (rotary
   coefficient > 0.5), highly intermittent and contribute up to 46
   % to the total kinetic energy of the surface flow field. Events
   of inertial activity, either triggered by the passage of
   atmospheric disturbances or by the local fluctuations in the
   atmospheric pressure (winds), did not last for more than 4 to 5
   inertial cycles. The observed inertial frequency exhibited a
   shift towards the red end of the spectrum by 12 %. Cyclonic
   storm induced inertial events even at a location 300 km away
   from it. (C) 2000 Ifremer/CNRS/IRD/Editions scientifiques et
   medicales Elsevier SAS.
BP 635
EP 640
PG 6
JI Oceanol. Acta
PY 2000
PD SEP-OCT
VL 23
IS 5
GA 377HK
J9 OCEANOL ACTA
UT ISI:000165508000007
ER

PT Journal
AU Lee, DK
   Niiler, PP
   Lee, SR
   Kim, K
   Lie, HJ
TI Energetics of the surface circulation of the Japan/East Sea
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS; CALIFORNIA CURRENT; DRIFTERS; VARIABILITY
AB During the period of August 1987 to June 1998, 96 Argos-tracked
   drifters traversed through the Japan/East Sea. The displacement
   data from these drifters were used to compute 1-3 day average
   current vectors, which described the circulation at 15 m depth.
   The drifters that passed through the Korea Strait via the
   western channel were caught by the East Korean Warm Current,
   and the drifters that passed through the eastern channel were
   caught by the Tsushima Current. Individual observations of the
   3 day average current over 40 cm s(-1) were made in the warm
   waters south of the subpolar front and along the coasts, There
   was a distinct decrease of eddy energy northward across the
   subpolar front. Conversion rates of eddy kinetic energy due to
   eddy mean flow interaction showed significant regions of both
   dissipation and production.
BP 19561
EP 19573
PG 13
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2000
PD AUG 15
VL 105
IS C8
GA 344FJ
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000088748300006
ER

PT Journal
AU Brink, KH
   Beardsley, RC
   Paduan, J
   Limeburner, R
   Caruso, M
   Sires, JG
TI A view of the 1993-1994 California Current based on surface
   drifters, floats, and remotely sensed data
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID COASTAL TRANSITION ZONE; NORTHERN CALIFORNIA; SHELF;
   PHYTOPLANKTON; VARIABILITY; CIRCULATION; EVOLUTION; PACIFIC;
   WINTER; FLOW
AB Near-surface drifters were deployed in the California Current
   System during the period 1993-1994 in order to study mean and
   eddy currents. The deployment scheme allowed a 2 year period
   where data density was high enough to make meaningful estimates
   of eddy statistics and of seasonal mean currents and variances
   on a 5 degrees grid. Eddy variability, which tended to be
   isotropic, was higher near the coast (standard deviations
   around 0.2 m s(-1)) and decreased offshore (down to similar to
   0.1 m s(-1)). Seasonal mean surface flow west of California was
   southward during all seasons: if a Davidson Current existed
   during 1993-1995, it was probably either short-lived or only
   found closer to the coast than our study area, i.e., within
   100-150 km of shore. In some cases, drifter populations within
   a discrete feature were high enough to allow some detailed
   resolution of its behavior. We note a tendency for individual
   eddies (which can last for up to 3-5 months) to drift westward
   at rates of O(5 km day-1). Not all eddies in the region are
   surface-intensified. There is clear evidence for at least the
   occasional presence of a thin, meandering southward jet in the
   region that can be 1000 km or more long. This jet can be
   identified with that found in the Coastal Transition Zone
   program in association with cool filaments. The jet appears to
   become broader and slower south of Point Conception. We
   hypothesize (on the basis of others' results as well as ours)
   that the eddies that are strongest at the surface result
   primarily from instabilities on a southward alongshore mean
   current and that eddies that are maximal at depth are spawned
   by the northward undercurrent.
BP 8575
EP 8604
PG 30
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2000
PD APR 15
VL 105
IS C4
GA 305GX
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000086532000008
ER

PT Journal
AU Shenoi, SSC
   Saji, PK
   Almeida, AM
TI Near-surface circulation and kinetic energy in the tropical
   Indian Ocean derived from Lagrangian drifters
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE RESEARCH
ID SOMALI CURRENT; FLOW; DISTRIBUTIONS
AB Trajectories of 412 satellite-tracked drifting buoys deployed
   in the tropical Indian Ocean have been analyzed to document the
   surface circulation and kinetic energy field. Only drifters
   drogued at 15 m depth and having drag area ratio greater than
   35 are used to estimate current velocities. Unlike in earlier
   studies, the widening of the Equatorial Jet in the eastern
   equatorial Indian Ocean and the westward flow at the equator
   during July-August are apparent in the present data set. The
   comparison of drifter data with the seasonal mean dynamic
   topography (0/1000 db) shows that the surface circulation
   pattern inferred from dynamic topography does not always
   represent the surface currents in the Indian Ocean. Both
   compare well for the South Equatorial Current, the Equatorial
   Counter Current, and the southwestward current along the
   Indonesian Islands; they differ in the Bay of Bengal during the
   southwest monsoon, but are similar during the northeast
   monsoon. Maps of mean and eddy kinetic energy show maxima in
   the regions of western boundary currents and equatorial
   currents and minima in the Arabian Sea, the Bay of Bengal, and
   south of 20 degrees S.
BP 885
EP 907
PG 23
JI J. Mar. Res.
PY 1999
PD NOV
VL 57
IS 6
GA 295NZ
J9 J MAR RES
UT ISI:000085975900003
ER

PT Journal
AU Oh, IS
   Zhurbas, V
   Park, WS
TI Estimating horizontal diffusivity in the East Sea (Sea of
   Japan) and the northwest Pacific front satellite-tracked
   drifter data
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS; SURFACE CIRCULATION; CALIFORNIA CURRENT;
   ATLANTIC
AB We use data of satellite-tracked, mixed-layer drifters
   collected for the World Ocean Circulation Experiment/Tropical
   Ocean-Global Atmosphere (WOCE/TOGA) Surface Velocity Program in
   the East Sea (Sea of Japan) and the northwest Pacific Ocean
   during 1991-1997 to obtain reliable estimates of geographically
   varying horizontal diffusivity, integral timescale and space
   scale. For the diffusivity we suggest calculation of both the
   minor principal component of the diffusivity tensor in a
   definition by Davis [1991] and the half growth rate of the
   minor principal component of the displacement variance tensor.
   Numerical simulation of particle motion is used to prove that
   the minor principal component estimates of diffusivity, in
   contrast to regular estimates, are insensitive to ensemble
   averaging over particles taken from a finite area in a shear
   mean flow. In the East Sea, typical values of the diffusivity,
   timescale, and space scale are (1.7-5.2) X 10(7) cm(2) s(-1),
   0.7-1.7 days, and 10-25 km, respectively. In the northwest
   Pacific Ocean, typical estimates of the diffusivity, timescale,
   and space scale in mean are a factor 2-3 larger, namely, (2.3-
   15.1) X 10(7) cm(2) s(-1), 1.7-3.7 days, and 18-62 km,
   respectively. It was found that the space scale L and the first
   mode internal Rossby radius Ri are related as L approximate to
   Ri, which suggests a parameterization of lateral diffusivity
   k(infinity) of the form k(infinity) = u Ri, where u is the rms
   current velocity fluctuation.
BP 6483
EP 6492
PG 10
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 2000
PD MAR 15
VL 105
IS C3
GA 293YG
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000085882400012
ER

PT Journal
AU Bracco, A
   LaCasce, JH
   Provenzale, A
TI Velocity probability density functions for oceanic floats
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID SINGLE-PARTICLE DISPERSION; 2-DIMENSIONAL TURBULENCE;
   LAGRANGIAN STRUCTURE; SOFAR FLOATS; GULF-STREAM; FLOW;
   CIRCULATION; VORTICES
AB Probability density functions (PDFs) of daily velocities from
   subsurface floats deployed in the North Atlantic and equatorial
   Atlantic Oceans are examined. In general, the PDFs are
   approximately Gaussian for small velocities, but with
   significant exponential tails for large velocities.
   Correspondingly, the kurtoses of the distributions are greater
   than three. Similar PDFs are found in both western and eastern
   regions, above and below 1000-m depth, with more significant
   non-Gaussianity in the North Atlantic than at the equator.
   Analogously, Lagrangian statistics in decaying two-dimensional
   turbulence also display non-Gaussian velocity PDFs with
   approximately exponential tails, in the limit of large Reynolds
   number.
BP 461
EP 474
PG 14
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 2000
PD MAR
VL 30
IS 3
GA 292FA
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:000085782400001
ER

PT Journal
AU Bograd, SJ
   Thomson, RE
   Rabinovich, AB
   LeBlond, PH
TI Near-surface circulation of the northeast Pacific Ocean derived
   from WOCE-SVP satellite-tracked drifters
SO DEEP-SEA RESEARCH PART II-TOPICAL STUDIES IN OCEANOGRAPHY
ID INTERANNUAL VARIABILITY; STATISTICAL-ANALYSIS; LAGRANGIAN
   DRIFTERS; CALIFORNIA CURRENT; SALMON PRODUCTION; EDDY
   STATISTICS; ALASKAN STREAM; MOMENTUM FLUX; BERING SEA; FLOW
AB Statistics of the near-surface circulation in the northeast
   Pacific Ocean were derived from the trajectories of nearly 100
   surface drifters tracked between August 1990 and December 1995
   as part of the World Ocean Circulation Experiment's (WOCE)
   Surface Velocity Program (SVP). Drifters were drogued within
   the mixed layer (15 m drogue depth) or near the top of the
   permanent halocline (120 m). All branches of the Alaskan Gyre
   were well-sampled at both depths, revealing a weak Subarctic
   Current, a bifurcation of the Subarctic Current near 48 degrees
   N, 130 degrees W at 15 m depth, and strong, variable how in the
   Alaska Current and Alaskan Stream. At 120 m depth, northward
   flow in the Alaska Current occurred much farther offshore than
   within the mixed layer. The drifter trajectories revealed
   interannual variability, with evidence of an intensified
   Alaskan Gyre during the winters of 1991-92 and 1992-93 and more
   southerly transport during winter 1994-95. A minimum in eddy
   kinetic energy was found at both depths within the northern
   branch of the Subtropical Gyre. Eddy kinetic energies were
   nearly twice as high in the mixed layer compared to below, and
   were 2-3 times larger in winter than in summer throughout most
   of the near-surface Alaskan Gyre. High eddy energies observed
   near the eastern perimeter of the Alaskan Gyre may be due to
   the offshore intrusion of eddies formed by coastal current
   instabilities. Taylor's theory of single-particle dispersion
   was applied to the drifter ensembles to estimate Lagrangian
   decorrelation scales and eddy diffusivities. Both the initial
   dispersion and random walk regimes were identified in the
   dispersion time series computed for several regions of both
   ensembles. The integral time scales and eddy diffusivities
   computed from the dispersion scale linearly with r.m.s.
   velocity, which is consistent with drifter studies from the
   Atlantic An exception is the meridional integral time scales,
   which were nearly constant throughout the study area and at
   both drogue depths. The magnitudes of the derived eddy
   statistics are comparable to those derived from surface
   drifters in other parts of the world ocean. These are the first
   Lagrangian estimates of particle dispersion over a broad region
   of the near-surface North Pacific, and the consistency of the
   results with previous studies from-the Atlantic lends credence
   to the idea that the simplifying assumptions of Taylor (1921)
   (Proceedings of the London Mathematical Society Series A 20,
   196-221) are reasonably valid throughout the upper ocean. This
   bodes well for the effective parameterization of near-surface
   diffusivities in general circulation models. Finally, the
   drifter-derived velocity statistics were used to speculate on
   the source regions of waters of possible coastal origin
   observed at offshore stations during the field studies of the
   Canadian Joint Global Ocean Flux Study. (C) 1999 Published by
   Elsevier Science Ltd. All rights reserved.
BP 2371
EP 2403
PG 33
JI Deep-Sea Res. Part II-Top. Stud. Oceanogr.
PY 1999
VL 46
IS 11-12
GA 248PM
J9 DEEP-SEA RES PT II-TOP ST OCE
UT ISI:000083284100003
ER

PT Journal
AU Bograd, SJ
   Rabinovich, AB
   Thomson, RE
   Eert, AJ
TI On sampling strategies and interpolation schemes for satellite-
   tracked drifters
SO JOURNAL OF ATMOSPHERIC AND OCEANIC TECHNOLOGY
ID TIME SERIES; CURRENTS; PACIFIC; BUOYS
AB The effects of reduced sampling schedules (duty cycles) on
   velocity statistics derived from satellite-tracked drifters in
   the northeast Pacific Ocean are investigated. Continuous
   segments of the drifter records tin which all available
   satellite positions fixes are recorded and processed by Service
   ARGOS) are degraded to match the standard duty cycle used in
   the World Ocean Circulation Experiment-Surface Velocity
   Program, in which there are 48 h of no data transmission
   followed by 24 h of received transmission (48-24 h). Also
   examined are duty cycles of 32-16 h and 16-8 h. It is found
   that the strong inertial motions prevalent in the drifter
   records result in significantly biased statistics derived from
   the degraded series. Reproduction of the original prime (mean
   and standard deviation) and rotary spectral statistics requires
   an interpolation that takes into account the oscillatory
   component of the drifter motions. Duty cycles having shorter
   but more frequent gaps (e.g., 16-8 h) are not sufficient to
   resolve the main features of the flow. The authors recommend
   that interpolations over duty cycle segments of drifter records
   be customized to account for the dominant modes of variability
   observed in available continuous segments.
BP 893
EP 904
PG 12
JI J. Atmos. Ocean. Technol.
PY 1999
PD JUL
VL 16
IS 7
GA 217PG
J9 J ATMOS OCEAN TECHNOL
UT ISI:000081507700009
ER

PT Journal
AU LaCasce, JH
   Speer, KG
TI Lagrangian statistics in unforced barotropic flows
SO JOURNAL OF MARINE RESEARCH
ID TURBULENCE; TRACER; WAVES; TOPOGRAPHY; TRANSPORT; FIELDS
AB We consider the dispersion of particles in potential vorticity
   (PV)-conserving flows. Because particle drift is preferentially
   along the mean PV contours, Lagrangian dispersion is strongly
   anisotropic. If the mean PV field moreover is spatially
   variable, as when there is topography, the anisotropy is more
   clearly visible in the dispersion of displacements along and
   across the mean PV field itself. We examine several numerical
   examples of unforced barotropic flows; in all cases, this
   "projected" dispersion is more anisotropic than that in
   cartesian (x, y) coordinates. What differs is the rate at which
   spreading occurs, both along and across contours. The method is
   applicable to real data, as is illustrated with float data from
   the deep North Atlantic. The results suggest a preferential
   spreading along contours of (barotropic) f/H.
BP 245
EP 274
PG 30
JI J. Mar. Res.
PY 1999
PD MAR
VL 57
IS 2
GA 197JM
J9 J MAR RES
UT ISI:000080361700002
ER

PT Journal
AU Burrows, M
   Thorpe, SA
TI Drifter observations of the Hebrides slope current and nearby
   circulation patterns
SO ANNALES GEOPHYSICAE-ATMOSPHERES HYDROSPHERES AND SPACE SCIENCES
DE oceanography; physical (eastern boundary; currents; eddies and
   mesoscale processes; turbulence; diffusion; and mixing
   processes)
ID NORTHERN NORTH-SEA; ATLANTIC; EDDIES
AB The mean flow at and around the Hebrides and Shetland Shelf
   slope is measured with ARGOS tracked drifters. Forty-two
   drifters drogued at 50 m were deployed in three circles over
   the Hebrides slope at 56.15 degrees N in two releases, one on
   5th December, 1995 and the second on 5-9th May, 1996. The
   circles span a distance of some 20 km from water depths of 200
   m to 1200 m. Drifters are initially advected poleward along-
   slope by the Hebrides slope current at between 0.05 and 0.70 In
   s(-1) in a laterally constrained (25-50 km wide) jet-like flow.
   Drifters released in winter remained in the slope current for
   over 2000 km whilst summer drifters were lost from the slope
   current beyond the Wyville-Thomson Ridge, a major topographic
   feature at 60 degrees N. Dispersion from the slope region into
   deeper waters occurs at bathymetric irregularities,
   particularly at the Anton Dohrn Seamount close to which the
   slope current is found to bifurcate, both in summer and winter,
   and at the Wyville-Thomson Ridge where drifters move into the
   Faeroe Shetland Channel. Dispersion onto the continental shelf
   occurs sporadically along the Hebrides slope. The initial
   dispersion around the Hebrides slope is remarkably sensitive to
   initial position, most of the drifters released in shallower
   water moving onto the shelf, whilst those in 1000 m or more are
   mostly carried away from the slope into deeper water near the
   Anton Dohrn SI:amount. The dispersion coefficients estimated in
   directions parallel and normal to the local direction of the
   500 m contour, approximately the position of the slope current
   core, are approximately 8.8 x 10(3) m(2) s(-1) and 0.36 x 10(3)
   m2 s(-1), respectively, during winter, and 11.4 x 10(3) m(2)
   s(-1) and 0.36 x 10(3) m(2) s(-1), respectively, during summer.
   At the slope there is a minimum in across-slope mean velocity,
   Reynolds stress, and across-slope eddy correlations. The mean
   across-slope velocity associated with mass flux is about 4x10(-
   3) ms shelfward across the shelf break during winter and 2 x
   10(-3):m s(-1) during summer. The drifters also sam-pled local
   patterns of circulation, and indicate that the source of water
   for the seasonal Fair Isle and East Shetland currents are the
   same, and drawn from Atlantic overflows at the Hebrides shelf.
BP 280
EP 302
PG 23
JI Ann. Geophys.-Atmos. Hydrospheres Space Sci.
PY 1999
PD FEB
VL 17
IS 2
GA 171AQ
J9 ANN GEOPHYS-ATMOS HYDROS SPAC
UT ISI:000078840200012
ER

PT Journal
AU Bauer, S
   Swenson, MS
   Griffa, A
   Mariano, AJ
   Owens, K
TI Eddy mean flow decomposition and eddy-diffusivity estimates in
   the tropical Pacific Ocean 1. Methodology
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID EQUATORIAL PACIFIC; SURFACE CURRENTS; VARIABILITY; TURBULENCE;
   CIRCULATION; DISPERSION; DRIFTERS; VELOCITY; FIELDS
AB The tropical Pacific Ocean surface current system can be
   characterized by a strong degree of nonstationarity due to the
   fast response time of equatorial and near-equatorial dynamics.
   The ocean-atmospheric dynamics create longitudinally coherent
   zonal flow (zonal length scales l(x) similar to 60 degrees)
   with strong meridional shear (l(y) similar to 1 degrees in
   latitude) in the large-scale mean and an energetic mesoscale
   (O(100 km)) component. Parameterization of the effects of the
   mesoscale field depends on the separation of the large-scale
   mean from the observed velocity. In this paper the focus is
   placed on the key issue: separating the flow into large-scale
   mean and mesoscale eddy components in order to compute
   meaningful eddy diffusivity estimates in flow regimes that
   demonstrate strong currents and strong shear. Large gradients
   in the large-scale mean have precluded diffusivity estimation
   by traditional binning techniques. In this first of two
   publications, a method is developed for using Lagrangian data
   to estimate the diffusivity addressing the inhomogeneity of the
   mean flow. The spatially dependent estimate of the mean field
   is computed with a least squares bicubic smoothing spline
   interpolation scheme with an optimized roughness parameter
   which guarantees minimum energy in the fluctuation field at low
   frequencies. Numerical simulations based on a stochastic model
   of a turbulent shear flow are used to validate our approach in
   a conceptually simple but realistic scenario. The technique is
   applied to near-surface drifter observations obtained from
   1979-1946 from two dynamically distinct time-space regions of
   the tropical Pacific Ocean. The first region, in the South
   Equatorial Current, is characterized by a linear zonal shear
   mean flow and an approximately exponential autocovariance
   structure in the residuals. The velocity residuals have
   velocity variance of (s) over cap(2) = 130 cm(2) s(-2) for both
   components, and horizontal diffusivities are <(kappa)over
   cap>(u) approximate to 7 X 10(7) cm(2) s(-1) and <(kappa)over
   cap>(v) approximate to 3 X 10(7) cm(2) s(-1). No significant
   interannual variations of the estimates are detected, but
   residual trends in the estimators arise from intraseasonal
   variations in the velocity field during the 3-month season. The
   second region, in the North Equatorial Countercurrent and the
   North Equatorial Current, has a mean flow with a strong zonal
   shear and a weak northward velocity. The autocovariance is
   approximately exponential for the zonal component, while the
   meridional component has a negative lobe at about 10 days,
   probably due to the presence of instability waves. The variance
   is 380 cm(2) s(-2) for the zonal component and 360 cm(2) s(-2)
   for the meridional component, while the horizontal
   diffusivities are <(kappa)over cap>(u) approximate to 15 X
   10(7) cm(2) s(-1) and <(kappa)over cap>(v) approximate to 4 X
   10(7) cm(2) s(-1). Strong intraseasonal variability requires a
   maximum time window of 2 months for approximate stationarity to
   hold for the covariance calculations.
BP 30855
EP 30871
PG 17
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 1998
PD DEC 15
VL 103
IS C13
GA 155YR
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000077974900015
ER

PT Journal
AU Dever, EP
   Hendershott, MC
   Winant, CD
TI Statistical aspects of surface drifter observations of
   circulation in the Santa Barbara Channel
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID POINT CONCEPTION; SPRING 1983; CALIFORNIA; OCEAN; VARIABILITY;
   CURRENTS; REGION; SHEAR; WIND; CODE
AB Argos-tracked drifters are used to study the near-surface
   circulation in the Santa Barbara Channel. The mean consists of
   a cyclonic cell in the western Santa Barbara Channel with
   weaker flow in the eastern Channel. Drifter mean velocities
   agree well with record means from near-surface current meters.
   At the eastern entrance to the channel, drifter velocities are
   biased toward outflow (eastward velocity) conditions. Drifter
   variability at synoptic and seasonal scales shows a tendency
   for upwelling and eastward flow in spring, a strong cyclonic
   circulation in summer, poleward relaxation in fall, and weak,
   variable circulation in winter. Drifter estimates of eddy
   stress divergence indicate advective terms play a secondary
   role in the mean surface momentum balance. Lagrangian time and
   space scales are about 1 day and under 10 km, respectively. The
   mismatch between Lagrangian and Eulerian timescales indicates
   advective terms are important to the fluctuating circulation.
BP 24781
EP 24797
PG 17
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 1998
PD OCT 15
VL 103
IS C11
GA 127XB
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:000076374900013
ER

PT Journal
AU Uotila, J
   Launiainen, J
   Vihma, T
TI An analysis of buoy drift in the northern North Atlantic with
   detection of drogue loss events
SO ATMOSPHERE-OCEAN
ID KINETIC-ENERGY; WIND; PACIFIC; SEA; FLOW
AB Buoy drift in the northern North Atlantic and adjacent seas was
   analyzed to study the surface-layer currents and wind forcing.
   Two drifters with drogues at depths of 10 and 75 metres were
   deployed in the Denmark Strait (DS) in August 1993. The buoys
   drifted in the East and West Greenland Currents (EGG and WGC)
   and in the ocean basins south of Greenland and Iceland. The
   drogue loss events of the drifters were estimated from the
   linear relationship between the drift and geostrophic wind
   velocities. The linear model produces a set of parameters
   describing the relationship between the drift and the wind
   These parameters were investigated to determine possible drogue
   loss events. The buoys seem to have lost their drogues near
   Cape Farewell in December 1993. Currents were calculated with
   the linear model. Strong current velocities of 0.5 m/s with
   stable directions were obtained in the EGG, while the currents
   were weaker, around 0.05 m/s, and the direction fluctuated more
   in the DS and the open ocean. The speed ratio between the wind-
   induced drift and the geostrophic wind ranged from 0.6% in the
   DS to around 1% in the EGC for drogued drift, while it was
   about 1.6% in the open ocean for non-drogued drift. The turning
   angle between the drift and the geostrophic wind fluctuated by
   some tens of degrees in coastal conditions, but was close to
   zero in the open ocean. According to the distribution of the
   relative drift directions, the drogued drift was directed with
   the wind 50% of the time while the undrogued drift was directed
   with the wind 80% of the time.
BP 471
EP 494
PG 24
JI Atmos.-Ocean
PY 1997
PD DEC
VL 35
IS 4
GA YV824
J9 ATMOS OCEAN
UT ISI:000071867000003
ER

PT Journal
AU Lavin, MF
   Durazo, R
   Palacios, E
   Argote, ML
   Carrillo, L
TI Lagrangian observations of the circulation in the Northern Gulf
   of California
SO JOURNAL OF PHYSICAL OCEANOGRAPHY
ID SEA
AB ARGOS drifters deployed in the Northern Gulf of California in
   September 1995 showed the presence of a cyclonic gyre, while a
   second deployment in March 1996 revealed an anticyclonic gyre.
   A circulation pattern consisting of a seasonally reversing gyre
   had been proposed before on the basis of satellite images,
   geostrophic calculations, and numerical models, but so far no
   direct observations have been made to test its existence. In
   September the gyre was cyclonic, baroclinic, very well defined,
   stable, and strong: its mean speed and rotation lime were 0.3 m
   s(-1) and similar to 7 days. In March the gyre had the same
   mean speed, but it was anticyclonic and displaced to the
   northwest of the summer position The March gyre has barotopic
   and baroclinic characteristics, but the observed speeds are
   stronger than in numerical simulations, These dare and a data
   bank analysis suggest that the summer gyre is a persistent
   summer feature, but the winter-spring situation remains ill-
   defined and requires further research.
BP 2298
EP 2305
PG 8
JI J. Phys. Oceanogr.
PY 1997
PD OCT
VL 27
IS 10
GA YA958
J9 J PHYS OCEANOGR
UT ISI:A1997YA95800015
ER

PT Journal
AU BRINK, KH
   BEARDSLEY, RC
   NIILER, PP
   ABBOTT, M
   HUYER, A
   RAMP, S
   STANTON, T
   STUART, D
TI STATISTICAL PROPERTIES OF NEAR-SURFACE FLOW IN THE CALIFORNIA
   COASTAL TRANSITION ZONE
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID DRIFTER OBSERVATIONS; NORTHERN CALIFORNIA; CURRENT SYSTEM;
   OREGON; OCEAN; CODE
AB During the summers of 1987 and 1988, 77 near-surface satellite-
   tracked drifters were deployed in or near cold filaments near
   Point Arena, California (39-degrees-N), and tracked for up to 6
   months as part of the Coastal Transition Zone (CTZ) program.
   The drifters had large drogues centered at 15 m, and the
   resulting drifter trajectory data set has been analyzed in
   terms of its Eulerian and Lagrangian statistics.  The CTZ
   drifter results show that the California Current can be
   characterized in summer and fall as a meandering coherent jet
   which on average flows southward to at least 30-degrees-N, the
   southern end of the study domain.  From 39-degrees-N south to
   about 33-degrees-N, the typical core velocities are of O(50 cm
   s-1) and the current meanders have alongshore wavelengths of
   O(300 km) and onshore-offshore amplitude of O(100-200 km).  The
   lateral movement of this jet leads to large eddy kinetic
   energies and large eddy diffusivities, especially north of 36-
   degrees-N.  The initial onshore-offshore component of
   diffusivity is always greater than the alongshore component in
   the study domain, but at the southern end, the eddy diffusivity
   is more isotropic, with scalar single particle diffusivity
   (K(xx) + K(yy)) of O(8 x 10(7) cm-2 s-1).  The eddy diffusivity
   increases with increasing eddy energy.  Finally, a simple
   volume budget for the 1988 filament observed near 37-degrees-N
   off Point Arena suggests that subduction can occur in a
   filament at an average rate of O(10 m d-1) some 200 km
   offshore, thus allowing the cold water initially in the
   filament core to sink below the warmer ambient water by the
   time the surface velocity core has turned back onshore.  This
   process explains why satellite temperature and color imagery
   tend to "see" only flow proceeding offshore.
BP 14693
EP 14706
PG 14
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 1991
PD AUG 15
VL 96
IS C8
GA GB337
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:A1991GB33700004
ER

PT Journal
AU HAYNES, R
   BARTON, ED
TI LAGRANGIAN OBSERVATIONS IN THE IBERIAN COASTAL TRANSITION ZONE
SO JOURNAL OF GEOPHYSICAL RESEARCH-OCEANS
ID NORTH-ATLANTIC; SURFACE; CALIFORNIA; DRIFTERS
AB Satellite-tracked drifters deployed in the Iberian coastal
   transition zone were gradually carried northward in a poleward
   flowing continental slope current between September 1986 and
   March 1987 in convoluted trajectories which revealed the
   ubiquitous presence of mesoscale eddies.  We estimate the rate
   of dispersion from the Lagrangian statistics of the drifting
   buoys and present a comparison of the results with those
   obtained from other oceanic regions.  The dispersion of the
   drifters is well modelled by a simple description of eddy
   diffusion assuming homogeneous isotropic turbulence (Taylor's
   theory).  The assumption of homogeneity and stationarity
   facilitated the derivation of stable Lagrangian statistics.
   After correction for non stationarity, the diffusivities
   obtained were K11 = 3.4 x 10(6) cm2 s-1 in the zonal direction
   and K22 = 2.5 x 10(6) cm2 s-1 in the meridional direction.  The
   Lagrangian integral time scales were respectively T11 = 1.25
   days and T22 = 1.9 days.  Our results and those of other
   authors, in environments ranging from truly oceanic to eastern
   boundaries, have all indicated that Taylor's theory fits the
   observations well.  As a first order approximation the
   assumption of a homogeneous and stationary field would appear
   quite robust.
BP 14731
EP 14741
PG 11
JI J. Geophys. Res.-Oceans
PY 1991
PD AUG 15
VL 96
IS C8
GA GB337
J9 J GEOPHYS RES-OCEANS
UT ISI:A1991GB33700006
ER

